Feeling pretty anxious about getting incorrectly 'banned' from a couple of websites I'm on. Writing this all down to remember what to say in my therapy session on Friday
- Feeling pretty insecure about talking about this with anyone, despite how I'm feeling. I guess I'm scared about how people would react when they hear how upset someone is about some websites. Going through scenarios in my head where I feel like I have to explain why I feel so awful, even though I know I'm allowed to feel any way that I want. 
- Even though I know that Claudia and Rosie would be supportive and understanding, for some reason I have this picture in my head that I'll be laughed at for being so upset about such a silly thing. It's stupid because they have never done such a thing and have always supported me. It makes me hate myself a bit for even thinking that. 
- In my head, its not really a silly thing. Being banned from these websites, means being banned from other websites. These websites are the backbone for Dictionarry, which has been a great project for me to work on. Not just as a hobby, but for everything. It gives me constant purpose, it gets me to socialise with people. It makes me feel accomplished. It puts something on my resume. It's a big deal for me.
- Now I'm even trying to justify to myself that I'm allowed to feel this way :(
- I read back that previous thought, and I realised I said "means being banned from other websites". But this is not true. It could be, in the future, but my brain is reacting as if it were true. 
- Is that why I'm so anxious? Because my brain is reacting to the worst case scenario here? Not what has actually happened? 
- I really wanted to tell someone in my family about what was happening. Just to vent a bit. My sister or my Mum. But I don't know how to ask them for help. In the past they've been quite dismissive and not understanding of the way I feel. Perhaps this is why I'm so anxious about telling anyone about what's going on. Because I know how they will react and my brain assumes that everyone will react like them. 
- My anxiety manifests itself in a few ways:
	- I get hypervigilant. I'm constantly assessing the situation. I learnt about what happened at 8pm and have been thinking about it until now (12am). That's four straight hours of constant anxious thoughts. I feel so trapped. 
	- Physically, I feel wobbly. Not nauseous, but almost like my head 