## Standardised Protocol

- even before coming up with a protocol, we found the entire idea quite ambitious. 200 people with varying experience and ambition agreeing on something as complicated as a messaging protocol will be very difficult
- did it work in the end? for the most part yes, we got a working agreed upon protocol. However, like with most things in life, the majority if it's implementation was implemented by a small group of the cohort, rather than everyone. I think it would be naiive to expect every single person to have some input, but I feel like we should have had a better way to get input from a variety of people, rather than just the ones who took the assignment head on - give a suggestion of things here.
- As for the protocol itself, I mostly have no issues with it. I do feel as though the message structures are bloated, could be more barebones.
- for example, there only needs to be 1 hello message, regardless of client or server. The recipient should be able to tell who it came from depending on the address. To achieve this, we would need stricter compliance in terms of deployment; i.e. a client and server must be hosted on the same device. Only 1 server can represent and IP address. This would improve security by reducing things like authenticity, and integrity (explain this more) and also simply message structure. 
- moreover, the protocol documentation was quite vague in places. There could definitely be more work done to explain integration between messages. Ie - server sends hello, then client asks for update, then server sends update, etc. Things like this would reduce confusion and improve interoperability
- I also felt like there were was a major issue in terms of broadcast storms that should have been dealt with protocol side, rather than implementation side. More specifically, when a server recieve a public message, it forwards this message to every other server. Then those servers forward it to every other server. To fix it, the servers would need to split the message apart and individually send messages to each other server. This puts a lot of strain on the sending server, which IMO defeats the purpose of a mesh network. All of this could be fixed by adding a simple from: field in the message structure to stop broadcast storms.
- but for the most part, the protocol worked! It was absolutely incredible to test our implementation against other implementations in a psuedo black box (each side only knows their own code)