- Types of storage
	- Volatile - disappears when powered down
	- Non-Volatile - stays when powered down
	- Stable - Immutable (cant be changed)

## Stable Storage
- Built from a number of non volatile components
- Independent failure modes (RAID)

## Redundancy
- The repetition or superfluity of data
- Undesirable if it's confusing
- Desirable if this repetition doesn't cause confusion
- Redundancy can mean:
	- Hardware
	- Network
	- Software
	- Physical

## Replication
- Copying data from some central database to one or more copies at different locations
- Can replicate:
	- At fixed intervals (snapshots of the data at specific times)
	- Per transaction
	- A peer wise copy (a complete ground up copy in a new system)
	- By merging

## Convenience / Safety Trade off
- Any replicas on your own site are fast but vulnerable
- Any replicas on line are still fast but vulnerable
- Data stored securely off line is not vulnerable but it's very slow to load

## Defence in Depth
- Lots of different layers to protect against data loss

##### Examples

1.
```
You have a replica data centre in a building across town, where you create transactional replicas over a network connection. List two plausible threats that would defeat this attempt to provide stable storage
```

- Bit flips causing the data to be mishandled and stored incorrectly. Site wide network crash that / slow speeds that inhibit the ability to send large amounts of data for backup purposes.

2.
```
You have a high availability data centre with replicas around the world, but due to very bad luck, all of your secondaries have failed and only the primary server is still running. Your server has dual power supplies but, suddenly, one of those fails. You have a large number of active useres still connected and using the service.

List the facts that would affect your decision to either keep that server running or to carry out a controlled shutdown and totally remove the service from the network.
```

- Controlled shutdown. Beneficial Calculus. If we're seeking to have the best result (outcome), for the greatest number, the best course of action would be to stop the server now and allow for backups to be made and secondary servers to come back online.
- If we were to let the server run, we risk that server crashing and losing the data entirely which would mean the total destruction of the product and a much much worse outcome than having the service unavailable for x amount of time.
- Some facts that might affect this decision would be the lead up to the events that caused the failure of other systems. Were they targeted? Or did they just coincidentally go down at the same time? How did the backup power go? What is the health of the system? How quickly can we get the secondaries back online? Do we have backups available? How important is the service? How much money will be lost, data missed because of downtime?