- Foundational questions
	- What do we know?
	- How do we know it?
	- Is our justification enough?
	- What does it even mean to say "we know"?

## Epistemology
- The branch of philosophy that deals with knowledge and:
	- What type of knowledge it is
	- Where it came from
	- How broadly it applies
	- How it is justified
	- How rational it is to believe it

### The Nature of Knowledge
- Belief
- Truth
- Justification
	- Knowledge is the combination of all three of these things

### Where Knowledge Comes From
- Perception
- Reason
- Memory
- Testimony

### The Structure of Knowledge
- Foundational beliefs - linear relationship starting with some sort of base belief that is just accepted
- Coherent beliefs - As long as all the beliefs can coexist with each other, they are valid

### Skepticism
- Questioning the possibility of knowledge
- Can we refute skeptical arguments

### Schools of Thought
- Empiricism - Relies on evidence acquired through direct and indirect observation, experimentation, and experience
- Rationalism - Certain truths are known through intuition and reasoning, independently of sensory experience.
- Pragmatism - Ideas and concepts are true or meaningful to the extent that they have practical utility and facilitate effective action
- Skepticism (questions the possibility of knowledge)
- Epistemic Relativism (The truth of knowledge is not universal, what is true for you does not have to be true for someone else)
- Epistemic Constructivism - knowledge is built off of previous knowledge

### Knowledge Discovery
- Making a discovery can be the application of one person’s effort, that of lab, that of a culture, or even part of yourself that you don’t recognise
- Not all types of knowledge can be associated with all of these groups

### Absence of Knowledge
- Do you only the truth of what you know, or can you hold beliefs that have not yet been fully disproved?
- How does this affect your reasoning and justification?

### Empirical Discovery
- Traditional and indigenous cultures tend to have knowledge systems embedded in their cultures, which reflects where they live, and how they have lived
- Empiricism is a large part of contemporary scientific discovery but in different ways
- The largest difference is usually in the basis of justification, the way that the knowledge is treated, and the way that it is disseminated

##### Examples

1. 
```
You spend a great deal of time to develop a discerning palate for wine and have a great deal of knowledge about the various chemical compounds, what they mean and how they are perceived in the human sensorium.

What kind of knowledge discovery is this and which school of thought does it belong to? Could a group of people develop this knowledge? Could a research lab?
```

- This is empiricism and rationalism
	- Empirical because your knowledge of wine is based on your experience around them
	- Rational because your knowledge is based off of scientific principles regarding chemical compounds
- Individually I don't think a group of people or a research lab could come to the same knowledge conclusions that this person has, but together they could. 

2. 
```
How do you know that Associate Professor Nick Falkner is your course coordinator for this course? Can you trace this to a firm foundation or is this more of a coherent belief?

What would you be required to make you skeptical of this belief?
```

Coherent, I think? Clearly, there is a foundational belief that Nick is the course coordinator which comes from the course outline, but these are sometimes not up to date. I think it's a coherent belief because of the other different truthful beliefs that all work together. He said so in the announcement, he's the one making the concept videos, etc. 

If there was an opposing belief, something that made me think that someone else was the course coordinator instead of Nick. What if the only interaction you had in this course was a few of the Seminar sessions. It wouldn't be out of this world to be skeptical that Nick is the course coordinator if Hamzah is the only one you've seen running the sessions.