
> [!idea] Reduction
> In computational complexity theory, a reduction is a way to convert one problem into another problem in such a way that a solution to the second problem can be used to solve the first problem. Reductions are used to show the relationship between the difficulty of different problems.
>
> Specifically, a polynomial-time reduction from problem A to problem B means that any instance of problem A can be transformed into an instance of problem B in polynomial time, such that a solution to the instance of problem B gives a solution to the original instance of problem A.
>
> Reductions are crucial for understanding NP-hardness and NP-completeness:
> 1. To prove that a problem X is NP-hard, we show that every problem in NP can be reduced to X in polynomial time. This means that X is at least as hard as any problem in NP.
> 2. To prove that a problem Y is NP-complete, we first show that Y is in NP, and then we find a known NP-complete problem that can be reduced to Y in polynomial time. This reduction proves that Y is NP-hard, and since Y is also in NP, it is NP-complete.
>
> Reductions help us understand the relative difficulty of problems and are essential for identifying NP-hard and NP-complete problems. By reducing a known NP-hard or NP-complete problem to a new problem, we can prove the hardness or completeness of the new problem.

> [!example] Reduction Example: Independent Set to Clique
> Consider the Independent Set problem (finding the largest set of nodes in a graph with no edges between them) and the Clique problem (finding the largest set of nodes in a graph where every node is connected to every other node).
>
> We can reduce the Independent Set problem to the Clique problem in polynomial time by taking the complement of the graph (i.e., replacing every edge with a non-edge and every non-edge with an edge). In the complement graph, an independent set becomes a clique and vice versa.
>
> This reduction shows that if we had a polynomial-time algorithm to solve the Clique problem, we could use it to solve the Independent Set problem in polynomial time as well. Since the Independent Set problem is known to be NP-hard, this reduction proves that the Clique problem is also NP-hard.
