
> [!idea] Reduction
> In computational complexity theory, a reduction is a way to **convert one problem into another problem in such a way that a solution to the second problem can be used to solve the first problem**. Reductions are used to show the relationship between the difficulty of different problems.
>
> Specifically, a polynomial-time reduction from problem A to problem B means that any instance of problem A can be transformed into an instance of problem B in polynomial time, such that a solution to the instance of problem B gives a solution to the original instance of problem A.
>
> Reductions are crucial for understanding NP-hardness and NP-completeness:
> 1. To prove that a problem X is NP-hard, we show that every problem in NP can be reduced to X in polynomial time. This means that X is at least as hard as any problem in NP.
> 2. To prove that a problem Y is NP-complete, we first show that Y is in NP, and then we find a known NP-complete problem that can be reduced to Y in polynomial time. This reduction proves that Y is NP-hard, and since Y is also in NP, it is NP-complete.
>
> Reductions help us understand the relative difficulty of problems and are essential for identifying NP-hard and NP-complete problems. By reducing a known NP-hard or NP-complete problem to a new problem, we can prove the hardness or completeness of the new problem.

> [!consider] ELI5: Reductions
> Imagine you have two different types of puzzles: Puzzle A and Puzzle B. Reductions are like a way to convert Puzzle A into Puzzle B, so that if you know how to solve Puzzle B, you can use that knowledge to solve Puzzle A as well.
> 
> Think of it like this:
> 1. You have a bunch of Puzzle A pieces, and you want to solve Puzzle A.
> 2. You find a way to change the Puzzle A pieces into Puzzle B pieces.
> 3. You solve Puzzle B using the pieces you got from changing Puzzle A.
> 4. Because of the way you changed Puzzle A into Puzzle B, the solution to Puzzle B also gives you the solution to Puzzle A!
> 
> Reductions help us understand how hard different puzzles are compared to each other. If we can change a really hard puzzle into an easier puzzle, it means that the easier puzzle is at least as hard as the really hard puzzle.
> 
> However, in real life, we don't actually solve puzzles by changing them into other puzzles. Reductions are more like a "theoretical magic trick" that computer scientists use to understand how puzzles relate to each other in terms of their difficulty. It's not something we do to solve puzzles in practice, but it helps us understand which puzzles are harder than others.

> [!example] Reduction Example: Independent Set to Clique
> Consider the Independent Set problem (finding the largest set of nodes in a graph with no edges between them) and the Clique problem (finding the largest set of nodes in a graph where every node is connected to every other node).
>
> We can reduce the Independent Set problem to the Clique problem in polynomial time by taking the complement of the graph (i.e., replacing every edge with a non-edge and every non-edge with an edge). In the complement graph, an independent set becomes a clique and vice versa.
>
> This reduction shows that if we had a polynomial-time algorithm to solve the Clique problem, we could use it to solve the Independent Set problem in polynomial time as well. Since the Independent Set problem is known to be NP-hard, this reduction proves that the Clique problem is also NP-hard.
