  
> [!idea] NP-Hardness
> **A problem $X$ is said to be NP-hard if every problem in NP can be reduced to $X$ in polynomial time**. In other words, if we have a polynomial-time algorithm that solves $X$, we can use it to solve any problem in NP in polynomial time by first reducing the NP problem to $X$ and then solving $X$.
>
> Formally, a problem $X$ is NP-hard if, for every problem $Y$ in NP, there exists a polynomial-time reduction from $Y$ to $X$. This means that we can transform any instance of $Y$ into an instance of $X$ in polynomial time, such that a solution to the $X$ instance gives us a solution to the original $Y$ instance.
>
> It's important to note that NP-hard problems don't necessarily have to be in NP themselves. In fact, some NP-hard problems, like the Halting Problem, are undecidable, meaning there is no algorithm that can always give a correct answer for every instance of the problem.
> 
> **If a certain puzzle was NP hard, then we can say that every other puzzle can be transformed into it to find a solution**

> [!example] NP-Hardness: The Party Problem
> Imagine you're planning a party and want to invite a group of friends. However, some of your friends don't get along with each other. You want to invite the maximum number of friends possible while ensuring that no two friends who don't get along are invited together.
>
> This problem is similar to the Maximum Independent Set problem, which is NP-hard. In this context, each friend represents a node in a graph, and an edge between two nodes means that those two friends don't get along. Finding the largest group of friends who can attend the party without any conflicts is equivalent to finding the maximum independent set in the graph, which is an NP-hard problem.
>
> The party problem illustrates the concept of NP-hardness because if you had a polynomial-time algorithm to solve this problem, you could use it to solve many other hard problems in NP by reducing them to the party problem.
