# What is Abstraction?
 - Abstraction allows us to focus on **what behaviour / functionality we want** rather than the details of how that behaviour is implemented
 - Consider integers
	 - What can you do with an integer `x` ?
		 - `x * y`
		 - `x / y`
		 - `x - y`
		 - `x + y`
	 - What can't you do ( or does it not make sense to do ) with an integer `x` ?
		 - `countLetters(x)`
	 - Do you need to know how integers are stored in a computer in order to use them

# Complex Data Types

- Often, we want to store data in a way that isn't covered by an existing data type
- What if wanted to represent people waiting in a queue? What fundamental type could we use?

# What Are Abstract Data Types

- ADTs are models with defined behaviour given by a set of values and a set of operations
- For a queue, what would be the behaviour of each of these operations be?
	- `dequeue() // leave the queue`
	- `enqueue() // join the queue`
	- `getLength() // how many in queue`
- Natural relationship to programming `classes`

- For a class to be an ADT:
	- Implementation must not determine behaviour
	- User should have no access to the details of implementation
	- Implementer must be able to change the implementation without impacting the user
	- The details have been abstracted away from us
- Unless defined and used with care, the programmer defined types can make a program difficult to understand and modify. Define the ADT first, then decide how to implement it!


# Arrays as an ADT

- Think back to using pointers to implement arrays in C / C++
- If you could design an array as an abstract data type, how would you want the array to behave?
- Define some operations you'd want to be able to do with data in an array
	- Remember - Don't worry about how you are going to do this - just what do you want to be able to do

- Create an array of m * n size (constructor)
- Add a variable to the end of an array
- Remove a variable from the end of the array
- Find the length of the array
- Find specific variables inside array
- Multi type array

# Mathemetical Set as an ADT

## Abstraction
- A collection of non-repeated values
- Unordered and unindexed

## Specification
- What functions do we need to use the set ADT?
- Anything in the specification is public
- Everything else is private ( or possibly protected if child class requires direct access )

# Designing for Abstraction
- Make all member variables private
- Make the basic operations public and specify how to use them
- Make any helping functions private

