## How to Handle Errors During Program Execution

Program errors are often divided into two categories:
- Logic errors that are caused by programming mistakes, for example, an index out of range
- Runtime errors that are beyond the control of a programmer, for example, a file not found

The preferred way to report and handle both logic and runtime errors is to use exceptions.  
Exception handling allows a programmer to provide code in the program to handle exceptional situations during execution time and therefore improve reliability.

### Throwing an Exception

The mechanism by which a function signals something wrong happened is called **throwing an exception**.  
This allows another part of the program to handle the situation. The solution might be terminating the program or doing something else.  
Throwing an exception enables clean separation between the code that detects the error and the code that handles the error.

### Try | Throw | Catch Mechanism

The basic way of handling exceptions in C++ consists of the `try`, `throw`, `catch` trio.

### Chained Handlers

Exception handlers are often chained at the end of a try block.  
Matching attempts are based on the order of declaration of handlers.

### Cleaning Up

C++ exception handling guarantees that as an exception leaves a scope all objects in that scope that have been successfully constructed will have the destructors called.

```c++
class A
{
    private:
        int age;
    public:
        A() {}
        ~A() {}

        void setAge(int age)
        {
            if (age<0)
                throw ("invalid age");
            else if(age>100)
                throw(999);
            this->age=age;
        }
};

int main()
{
    A a;
    try {a.setAge(111);}
    catch(const char*  msg) {cerr << msg << endl;}
    catch(int ecode) {cerr << ecode << endl;}
    return 0;
}
```

### Standard Exceptions

Throw `std::` standard exception
