## Structured Data

C++ allows us to define new data types. Using the keyword `struct`, we can group a collection of different data types as one entity:

```cpp
struct student {
    string name;
    int ID;
    double grade;
};
```

### Structs

We can pass structs as parameters and assign them:

```cpp
student s1;
print_grade(s1);
```

We can access fields using dot `.` notation:

```cpp
s1.name = "Feras";
panda.ID = 130414;
panda.grade = 98.5;
```

We use arrow `->` notation with pointers to structs:

```cpp
student *ps = &s1;
cout << ps->name << " has ID " << ps->ID << endl;
```

- We cannot add structs together if it is not defined how to add them together 
- Data in structs resemble objects. The objects have states (Data types) and behaviours (manipulating that data)
- Classes also act similar to structs but are more complex

### Functions as Members of Structs

C++ allows for a struct to have function members. The function members operate on the data members. This gives structs a notion of behaviour. It is better to use classes instead of the struct if it is becoming complex (covered next week).

---

## Object-Oriented Thinking

The more programs are required to solve real-life problems with a large number of entities that interact in similar but not quite the same ways, the more there is a need for a different paradigm.

### Introducing OOP

- Objects are programming constructs that capture entities in the problem domain
- Object-oriented programming is where we use objects to analyze, design, and implement solutions to problems

---

## OOP Design 101

We start from a use case description (a paragraph of text). Then we:
- Identify nouns as potential objects and their data members
- Identify verbs as interactions between these objects
- Identify the hierarchical relationship between these objects
- Identify the responsibilities for each object (who does what?)

### Example

**Objects / Data Members / Interactions / Hierarchical Relationship**  
*The Adelaide Zoo... (trimmed for brevity)... program that does this!*

#### Data Stored

- All animals in the zoo
- Species, sub-species, and other classifications
- Name, id
- Dietary requirements; favourite food
- Eating plan: feeding times and quantities
- Display times
- Play times and favourite toys
- Favourite zookeeper

#### Zookeepers

- Name
- ID
- Working shift times

### State and Behaviour

Each object has state and behaviour.

**State**:  
Collection of attributes and their values that define the object and possibly distinguish the object from other objects.

**Behaviour**:  
What the object does: the functionality that it meets, how it interacts with other objects.

### Example 2: Tour De France

**Objects / Data Members / Interactions / Hierarchical Relationship**  
*Cadel Williams and Marcel Kittle... (trimmed for brevity)... they should use.*

---

## Object Interaction

Objects interact with others in various ways:

### Aggregation

- Objects can contain other objects (one or many)
- A classroom contains many students and one lecturer
- A cyclist has more than one bike
- The Adelaide Zoo has two pandas
- Contained objects usually only exist within the scope of the containing object

### Communication

- Objects can tell other objects to do things, that is, perform their behaviour
- A zookeeper feeds a lion
- A lion eats a steak
