
> [!idea]+ Tools
> As software engineers, we use tools to make developing software easier. They abstract away complex processes that improve the ease of the software lifecycle. 
> - Balance usefulness of tool and ease of use. Jira is useful, but is bloated with unnesecary features *integrate*
> - need to think about
> 	- Which tool to pick - open source? paid? secure?
> 	- Can it even help us? Need to determine tradeoffs between knowledge required to setup and get working and time saved.
> 	- No point in using a tool if you need to dedicate heaos of time to getting team to learn it. It's not saving time (for the current project)

> [!consider]+ Reverting Code Changes
> Consider a scenario in which a programmer needs to revert their code to some old version. Without tooling, they would need to have saved older files on their system, named them accordingly and stored them in such a way that makes it easy to find and restore to.
> 
> As you can imagine, this process degrades significantly without extreme ease of care and prior experience. Instead, programmers use established version control systems that abstract this process away using a standard set of commands.

> [!idea]+ Verson Control Systems
> Version Control Systems **captures the state of files over a period of time.** This state includes:
> - Contents of the file
> - Timestamp
> - Current owner
> 
> VCSs are used for plain text files, not binary files. **why??? Release page on github??**
> 
> VCSs can either be distributed or central.
> - Distributed systems such as Git are primarily p2p and users have complete repositories on their local systems, which they can sync with a remote one (GitHub). This p2p system allows select synchronisation between users, keeping track of different versions of the same system.
> - Central systems use a client server architecture. A single repository is used for all users and everyone must sync to this server - the same version of the same system.

Consider callout explaning the issues with central VCS and SVN. Merge errors, users writing to the same files at the same time and wanting to merge into the main repository. Main question - whos code gets to merge into the main repo first? who decides?

Idea callout to explain how GIt uses branches to seperate individual work. There will still be conflicts, but this can be fixed. It cant be fixed in SVN (??? can it???) also explain branches in general. 

> [!Example]+ Git Workflow
> Contents

--- Add table to example callout above

| #   | Event                                                                               | Command                           | Explanation                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1   | New file is added, old file is removed or edited                                    | `git add <*.file>`                | Git keeps track of a list of files that have been changed. When we `git add` files, we are 'staging' these files to be captured inside the next snapshot of changes.                                       |
| 2   | A set of changes encapsulating a minor feature change - example: implementing oAuth | `git commit - m <commit message>` | After we have 'staged' our files using `git add`, we take a snapshot of this list of changes using `git commit`. It's important to add a detailed commit message to explain exactly what has been changed. |
| 3   | A snapshot of changes is ready to be merged into a remote repository                | `git push <remote> <branch>`      | Once we are ready to share the current snapshot of changes with the remote repo (for pull requests, or collaboration), etc, we push these changes to our remote repository using `git push`.               |
Idea callout for Github. Outlining that we can use git with a central repo to push new changes from our local system and pull in new changes from other collaborators. 

Add in examples for push, pull, etc

consider callout for commit messages. `done feature` is no more. Important parts include:
- Title / summary
- detailed description
- ticket / bug / issue id 
Also include why commit messages are important. Changelogs!? Users want to see what has changed.

example callout for a commit message. 


Version identification
how? why? major, minor, patch. optional pre release label. 
explain each point.

examples.

IDEs = integrated development environment. editor, build env, testing, debugging, tools, etc

**VISUAL STUDIO CODE IS NOT AN IDE. IT IS A TEXT EDITOR**

pycharm, visual studio (not code)

