motivation - quality management
- ensure client satisfaction and maintain reputation
- managed via
	- rigorous approach
	- defined processes
	- documentation
	- continuous development
	- quality culture

idea - quality software
- meets requirements / specification
- efficient
- intuitive
- robust
- secure
- quality is subjective
	- end user vs development vs project manager
	- each party has a different definition of quality, changes based on requirements

consider - fit for purpose test
- we do this test to determine quality of software
	- does the software meet the needs of users? check the user stories
	- are programming, docs and other standards and processes being followed?
	- has it been tested?
	- is it dependable? can it be deployed without issues?
	- performance? benchmarks?
	- is it well structured, how much technical debt is there?

consider - conflicting quality
- different quality definitions might conflict with each other - the program cannot be both secure AND adaptable at the same time
- instead of focusing on product quality, should focus on process quality

idea - product vs process standards
- convert to table please
- product
	- etc
- process
	- etc

idea - how do we manage quality? activities
- quality assurance
	- establish standards that the program must follow to ensure 
	- via standards
		- encapsulate best practices
		- avoids repetition of past mistakes
		- help to define what quality means 
		- classification levels - ISO, IEEE, etc
		- product, process levels - agile, coding style, etc
- quality planing
	- select proper procedures and standards for developing software
- quality control
	- ensure that the procedures and standards we set are actually followed 

idea - documentation standard
- a tangible manifestation of software in written form
	- acts as an aftifact or evidence of the software plan
- process standards
	- how are documents developed, validated and maintained?
- document standards
	- idenfication
	- structure
	- presentation
	- update
- interchange standards
	- compatability of these docs. who can view what? what software is being used to display docs?


idea - coding standards
- we define coding standards because software lives on after we move on from a project
	- a developer will understand how code is written and better integrate themselves within  project.
	- this ensures fast onboarding and fast reviews - does the code abide by our coding standards?

idea - quality planning
- what do we want? how do we know if we have what we want?

idea - quality control
- check software abides by procedures and standards are followed
	- code reviews
	- documentation reviews
	- CI/CD

idea - quality review
- a group of people who review software and documentation for potential problems
	- can approve, request changes, submit feedback, et
- multiple types of reviews
	- technical review - review code for standards and achieveing milestones
	- software inspection - structure peer review and fault detection
	- structure walkthrough - led by developer to explain new feature


idea - Agile QA
- pair programming where 1 person writes code and the other checks
- TDD - writing tests before writing code
- Mob programming - everyone programming on the same laptop together - wtf?